Policy

Homepage

Accessibility links

Skip to content

Accessibility Help

BBC Account

Notifications

Home

News

Sport

Weather

iPlayer

Sounds

Bitesize

CBeebies

CBBC

Food

Home

News

Sport

Business

Innovation

Culture

Travel

Earth

Video

Live

More menu

Search BBC

Home

News

Sport

Weather

iPlayer

Sounds

Bitesize

CBeebies

CBBC

Food

Home

News

Sport

Business

Innovation

Culture

Travel

Earth

Video

Live

Close menu

MEDIA ACTION

Menu

Menu

Home

Our work

Our insight and impact

Support us

Get in touch

Donate

Search

JavaScript has been disabled.

This page needs JavaScript to work correctly. Please enable JavaScript in your browser
				settings.

JavaScript is required for the following feature(s):

opening and closing the contents list (on mobile)

opening and closing the navbar (on mobile)

Policy

Contents

Contents

Policy briefings

Practice briefings

Policy briefings

'...and Action!' How media can address climate change in countries most affected

November 2021

This policy note argues that donors, policymakers and climate experts can enhance the impact of their climate change plans and strategies by leveraging the power of media and communication.

Working paper 1: Pathways to media sustainability in a broken market

April 2021

This working paper assesses whether fresh approaches to public subsidy might provide part of a solution to supporting independent media, especially in low-and middle-income settings.

Feasibility Study: An International Fund for Public Interest Media

April 2020

This feasibility study outlines the case for, and the practical feasibility of establishing, a new International Fund for Public Interest Media (IFPIM).

Coming of age - communication’s role in powering global health

October 2016

Through a careful review of the evidence, this briefing offers a spirited case for why donors, practitioners and developing country governments need to pay more attention to the role of communication in tackling global health.

Accountability, nation and society - the role of media in remaking Nepal

September 2016

This policy briefing provides an overview of the issues facing Nepal’s media in the context of the country’s current political and development challenges.

Curbing corruption – The role of independent media in fragile settings

This report examines the evidence of what works and doesn’t in curbing corruption - and how a free and independent media can help.

Public service media in divided societies - relic or renaissance?

This briefing focuses on the media of countries that are divided, undergoing crisis or conflict, or where governance is weak.

After the Arab uprisings - prospects for a media that serves the public

This briefing explores the evolving relationship between media and politics in the period following the Arab uprisings of 2011.

Making waves - media’s potential for girls in the Global South

This policy briefing draws on expert interviews and insights from media and development literature to explore how the media can help positively shape girls’ prospects in the Global South.

The power of talk - media and accountability in three African countries

The briefing argues the media’s complex role as a force for accountability, identifying the most effective strategies as those grounded in the cultural and political contexts of the countries concerned.

Debates in Change symposium - report and conclusions

This report shares areas of consensus and debate from a symposium on social and behaviour change, an increasing priority in international development.

Health on the move – can mobile phones save lives?

A policy briefing focusing on how the mobile phone offers important opportunities for saving lives, drawing on BBC Media Action's direct experience in using phones to improve health education in one of the poorest states of India.

From the ground up - changing the conversation about climate change

This policy briefing examines the role for communication in climate change adaption in seven Asian countries.

Fragile states - the role of media and communication

This policy briefing examines the implications of current media trends for fragile states and argues that the role of a free media should be embraced and better prioritised in strategies designed to support such states.

The media of Iraq ten years on – the problems, the progress, the prospects

A decade after the US-led coalition troops entered Iraq in March 2003, this policy briefing focuses on the problems, the progress and the prospects for Iraq’s media.

Still left in the dark? – how people in emergencies use communication to survive

How people in emergencies use communication to survive - and how humanitarian agencies can help. This policy briefing looks at the role of media and technology in the aftermath of a crisis.

The media of Afghanistan - the challenges of transition

An analysis of the challenges facing Afghanistan's media as international military forces prepare to withdraw in 2014.

The media of Somalia - a force for moderation?

An examination of the media's role in shaping Somalia, including how people in Somalia access, trust and use information.

Least responsible, most affected, least informed – public understanding of climate change in Africa

Based on research across six countries in sub-Saharan Africa, this 2009 policy briefing exposes the information gap in Africa about climate change.

The 2007 Kenyan elections and their aftermath – the role of media and communication

This in-depth briefing argues that media is fundamentally changing how people access information, and that Kenya is an example of what can happen when those changes are ignored or poorly understood.

Practice briefings

Using media and communication to respond to public health emergencies

This practice briefing sets out what BBC Media Action learned in delivering and supporting health communication during the West Africa Ebola crisis in 2014–15.

Turn up the volume: empowering women through media

Women are under-represented in the decision-making processes that affect their lives. How can media help address the balance?

Inspiring political participation: Lessons from the media

This publication sets out what BBC Media Action learned in delivering programmes designed to increase political participation in developing countries.

A bigger splash - Partnering for impact

This publication discusses how we can best use media and governance programming to hold power to account.

Doing debate differently: Media and accountability

This publication discusses how we can best use media and governance programming to hold power to account.

Rethinking communication for maternal and child health

This publication discusses what BBC Media Action has learnt about child and maternal health practices from their work on the shaping demand and practices project in Bihar.

iPages Dev tools

Page built:

Mon Jan 12 2026 14:51:11 GMT

Site ID:

ipages-media-action

Built from:

master @ 82edab8

Rebuild Page

The page will automatically reload. You may need to reload again if the build takes longer than expected.

Rebuild page

Useful links

View in iSite

View page XML

View JSON cache

View in iPages Dashboard

Demo mode

Hides preview environment warning banner on preview pages.

On

Off

Theme toggler

Select a theme and theme mode and click "Load theme" to load in your theme combination.

Theme:

Blue

Green

Internal

Pink

Purple

Red

Studios

Teal

Wales

Neutral

Theme Mode:

Dark

Default

Light

Load theme

Reset

Explore the BBC

Home

News

Sport

Weather

iPlayer

Sounds

Bitesize

CBeebies

CBBC

Food

Home

News

Sport

Business

Innovation

Culture

Travel

Earth

Video

Live

Terms of Use

About the BBC

Privacy Policy

Privacy Policy

Cookies

Cookies

Accessibility Help

Parental Guidance

Contact the BBC

Make an editorial complaint

BBC emails for you

Advertise with us

Copyright © 2026 BBC.

The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.

Read about our approach to external linking.