Giving a friendly wave to all his fans, the Michelin Man presides over the proceedings with a smile at the opening of the Michelin Guide Food Festival in Haitang Bay on Feb 10, 2026. [Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn]
It's all fun and action right now at the 2026 Michelin Guide Food Festival, which opened with a bang on Feb 10 and is running through to Feb 12 at Haitang Bay — located in the coastal resort city of Sanya, Hainan province. The event marks the first time the globally acclaimed foodies' bible the Michelin Guide has brought a major festival to Hainan. As such, it easily stands out as one of Sanya's highest-profile international food and culture events held to date.
Thrilling the crowd, a lively lion dance takes place at the opening ceremony of Haitang Story in Sanya on Feb 10, 2026. [Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn]
The festival coincides with the opening of the first phase of the Haitang Story North District — a tourism‑driven commercial, shopping, dining and entertainment complex. The new project is widely seen as a major landmark for tourism and shopping in the Hainan Free Trade Port. It aims to bring new energy to the region’s growth as a global center for tourism and consumption.
Mouthwatering: A bowl of tempting Snowflake Coconut Dew. [Photo from the Sanya Tourism Board]
At the event, Zou Hongbo, deputy mayor of Sanya's Haitang district, highlighted the importance of the milestone. He said it was a key start for the Haitang Story project and noted that the event was helping Sanya to improve its high-end tourism services and support the high-quality growth of the local travel industry.
Steaming and inviting: A serving of Fujian Shacha beef offal. [Photo from the Sanya Tourism Board]
Industry experts believe that the event successfully connects a famous international brand with local resources. By using food and culture to reach new audiences, Haitang Story is viewed as popularizing Sanya on the world stage. The aim is for the project to serve as a new example of integrating culture with tourism within the Hainan FTP.
Another gastronomic delight: Ningbo Tangyuan (Sweet Rice Balls). [Photo from the Sanya Tourism Board]