When you step onto the shores of Hainan, the lazy sea breeze comes with its own "stress relief feature". Slip into your flip-flops, put on that floral shirt, grab a coconut, and even the most tightly wound nerves will switch to "island mode".
For most locals in Hainan, "island wear" is synonymous with loose-fitting floral shirts. These shirts, inspired by the unique cultural and natural beauty of Hainan, come in a variety of patterns and styles.
Over the years, island wear has become a cultural trademark in Hainan. As times change, it continues to evolve to cater to the latest aesthetics and tap into broader markets.
Introduced in the 1990s, the island wear was initially used as work uniforms for tour guides and salespeople, and later gained popularity as souvenirs presented to guests at events.
However, the industry didn't thrive on this initial popularity. Some tourists opt for cheaper options, which may sacrifice quality. This, and the fact that many island wear designs lack innovation, has led to a slump in the industry.
Today, many companies in Hainan are increasing their innovative efforts to inject new vitality into the island wear industry. For example, some fashion teams integrate elements of Hainan's scenery and ethnic minority cultures into their products, making the island wear more fashionable and appealing.
In 2022, the Haikou Zhongcheng Cultural Tourism Industry Research Institute established a research team for the "Hainan Island Wear" design project.
The designers researched clothing popular at tropical island destinations around the world, studied Hainan's characteristics, and created fabric patterns with a phoenix motif in red, blue and green symbolizing Hainan's culture.
The team also created the "Wave" trademark, representing Hainan Free Trade Port's pioneering spirit. It's been registered with the National Intellectual Property Administration, a crucial step for island wear branding.
The head of the Fashion and Apparel Department at Nanhai Academy of Fine Arts of Haikou University of Economics proposed that in addition to creative design patterns for island wear, efforts should also be made in the packaging of products, which should be more exquisite and delicate.
She believes that besides wearing island wear while visiting Hainan, tourists from other regions can also take the beautifully packaged items back as souvenirs for family and friends. For example, clothes can be placed in stylish, small packages like coconut shells to enhance their added value, thus expanding the breadth and depth of the market. At the same time, increasing collaboration between universities and enterprises is also encouraged, which will allow students' outstanding creativity to be transformed into popular products, nurture professional design talent, and expand the high-end market for the island wear.
Hainan Daily contributed to the story.
You are leaving this site and will be connected to a third-party website.